all right folks welcome back
this is going to be kind of like the
direction we're going to be going in the
future with the channel here
i'm wrapping up the mentorship teachings
for this model
and we'll be just basically doing
reviews and
index futures
forex
commodities one and it's applicable and
i posted that on
twitter that's kind of like a short
little promo
and everybody was excited thinking that
i'm gonna be doing like
30 different markets every single day
it's not what i'm doing
so kind of give you a flavor for what it
is that we will be doing uh the
mentorship group that i have with us a
private group i no longer make videos
for them
and one of the reasons why i started
this
project here
is to steer people away from wanting to
buy videos that aren't going to help you
anyway so when you're buying old videos
i'm talking about market moves for that
particular day
so it's not going to be as useful to you
so to keep people
from profiting off of pirated videos
i stopped making videos in my private
group
and i make them here publicly
now
some of my students are upset that i did
that
others that understand why i'm doing it
are in support of it i'm not going to
argue or
wrestle with the
opinions of who's in support of and who
isn't supportive i look at it this way
the folks that would have an issue with
it they're probably the ones that are
trying to sell pirated videos so now
i've removed their market
so you're a fool if you're going out
there and you're buying all these
instagram guys that are selling my
videos i got ict mentorship 2021 2022
2020 19 all the way back to 2016.
you know folks
they're not going to help you
because you weren't there
when it was given at the time it was
given
that's being mentored so that's what i'm
kind of doing here and i do on my
twitter account
so
that way we understand why i'm doing it
and what motivates me to do it
so
there won't be a lot of markets
obviously being covered each day i'll be
looking at the markets that i was
referring to either on twitter or i
actually took trades in so it's not a
matter of talking about something
that no one expected me to have an
interest in
which is predominantly what you see here
on
youtube and
instagram and
twitter and
facebook and
discord and
you know
it's the list goes on and on
so
today
one minute before 8 30. i apologize i
was
waiting for my
phone to update it's software and by the
time i got back on to twitter i had one
minute left to type out everything that
i posted and you can go my twitter feed
and you'll actually see the post in here
too
but
on the economic calendar
there was a high impact news driver for
canadian dollar and i said i would start
working in forex when there's a lot of
you are
specifically interested in forex because
that's predominantly what i'm known for
i've moved away from forex recently
because i wanted to be a part of the
stock index futures market and i'm still
engaged obviously in that i did some
live trades today and i'll share some of
that with you as well
but i was covering the canadian dollar
and what i was
outlining is kind of like
this idea and we're gonna use it also to
work within the scope of the teaching on
daily bias and we'll get into that in a
later time in this video but right away
when you look on the left hand side this
chart here is a dollar cad
daily chart and on the right hand side
it's the hourly chart of the same pair
dollar cut
notice that we saw last week the market
traded up
just bumped the short-term high here
with that daily high
what do we see
once that occurred
what formed on that daily chart
you want to pause the video here
all right if you need more time
pause the video because i'm about to
continue
when the market ran
into that old high here
it hit it then the next day it created a
lower
high candle
so we have one candle
a higher candle high here on candle two
and candle three or day three so this is
what i dub a swing high
i'm not using a williams fractal on mt4
i don't use mt4
this is not mt4 platform and five
candles if you're waiting for five
candles you missed the boat
so
this
swing high at an old high
did it run it
not by much but it did
that movement right here shown clearly
on the hourly chart and the following
day creating a high that has a lower
high than the highest one that ran into
that old high
so we have a three bar pattern
one candle the lower candle to the left
a lower candle to the right that's a
swing high
pretty simple stuff
then the next day
i'm going to be expecting the market to
trade lower
now here's the problem
with this particular market
yes it's likely to trade down and with
the benefit of hindsight i'm showing you
here but again i tweeted about this
beforehand
so at 8 29 a.m eastern standard time
you can see that is on my twitter feed
if it's dropping down we have this down
close candle here
so it could be met with some resistance
digging into this range of this down
closed candle
about half of its body right in here
and
not surprising you can see that's pretty
much where we close that candle here on
the 21st of june 2022.
so when we look at this dashed line here
what i'm anchoring to is the opening on
this down closed candle because that is
a bullish order block now
i'm not suggesting that we went into
that to go higher
i'm just saying that as we started this
down move
it's digging into this candle so that's
going to be
the impediment to a big sudden one big
candle that would take us down into this
area here and clear out this
so over to the hourly chart
you can see
last week we ran up into it started
drifting lower
fair bay gap here it rebalances to that
drops back down consolidates between
this high and the low here comes back in
drops once more attacking the cell stops
here
consolidates once more
breaks
digs into that order block
again that's this level here
so watch what happens it goes into it
overnight
then it rallies
this rally here is ahead of
the 830 news driver
on the economic counter you can find it
on 4xfactory.com
but this movement here this is
all manipulation
that takes us up into an imbalance here
a fair value gap running a short term
high
buy side has been taken when it runs
here
that's anchored above this short-term
high
the chart on the left here is a
15-minute time frame for a dollar cad
and the chart on the right is a five
minute chart
on the economic account you can see at 8
30 in the morning
june 21st 2022 we had a high impact news
driver for core retail sales
and medium impact retail sales number
yellow events i'm not interested in
red or medium impact high or medium
impact
those are the news drivers i'm looking
for so if we look at the
price movement
on the five minute chart
you can see that once we
ran up initially at seven o'clock in the
morning what is seven o'clock in the
morning new york time that's the
beginning of my ict new york
kill zone
it's extended to 10 o'clock in the
morning when it's 4x
so 7 o'clock to 10
in the morning near the local time
the market creates a short-term high
then runs above that so we have buy side
taken then the market
drops just below here but i want to have
a more meaningful
displacement
okay we want to see something that's
more energetic
this little
toe in the water type thing
here that's not enough we want to see it
fall in
okay so it drops down that short term
low here that's your shift in market
structure
energetic displacement and that candle
is exactly when that news driver came
out of 8 30. so all of this is news
driver related
economic calendar
manipulation
and the market is going to cause people
to want to sell short and chase it going
lower
it creates a fair value gap in here
on the five-minute chart but there also
is a fair value gap here now ahead of
the news
you might be thinking well
couldn't you have sold short here yes
you could have but
the economic drivers that come at 8 30
could have sent it up higher and taken
us into this area here so really it's a
matter of waiting for the news to hit
the market and then create the setup
that's a little bit more conservative
there are times when it's so obvious
that
they're going to continue the move that
starts ahead of the new driver
but
it takes a little bit more experience to
find those setups and trust them
i would rather you use your demo account
to see these types of moves
real time wait for them to form and then
go in and engage them with your demo
not try to forecast how much of a move
it's going to
further increase higher or lower once
the new driver comes out or the news
event hits the marketplace
relative equal lows down here there's
your sell side
so we had
this fair value got
formed after buy side was taken here but
now this creates an area of buy side
that once this trades lower we have this
fair value gap and then we have this
very value gap so it could run up into
that level
with the volatility
so you have to make sure that you have
that
defined with your risk management
the draw on liquidity
is
likely to pull down in here
or into this
fair value gap and we'll talk a little
bit more about why that's the case
but eventually it trades down into it
bagged and tagged sells liquidity
the tweet i posted again you can see
this at 8 29 a.m june 21 2022
i just made it on twitter but basically
saying good morning folks
dollar cad is about to have some
volatility
note the sell side
and buy side on your 5 and 15 minute
charts
sell side is here
buy side would be here
study if it wants to run sell side
before buy side or rebounds to a
discount
what does that mean
at the news driver release it could go
up and bump the buy side
then dig in
for the imbalance here
that's a discount
or run the sell side out here
so all of this movement up
since five o'clock in the morning
new york local time
this was just the head of
that news driver here so they were
building in a premium
then during the new york kill zone it
gave you the setup that i teach in this
model
delivered to the fair value gap and
delivered to the south side of koji pool
between this high
and that low here is equilibrium so we
have to find a discount
array below that if we're going short
that's the favorite a gap here
you can take a partial there
and target the sell side liquidity which
you can see it does that as well here
and here i tweeted and i failed actually
include that tweet i wish i would have
put it in here now but
i mentioned how the market reacted here
like that and i stated that's the reason
why you want to take partials because
you don't know if it's going to come all
the way back up and then revisit the
sphere of a gap and lose the opportunity
to bank something when it goes into your
first opportunity discount array when
going short
now i've dropped down into a four-minute
chart
and i dimmed
the
fair value gap that i mentioned earlier
that you could have taken that trade but
it'd be ahead of the news driver
and it's a little bit more riskier but
you wait for the displacement
short term low is taken then we have a
shift in market structure
and the imbalance would be between this
low of this candle and the high of this
candle in here
now by itself this is a rather elongated
imbalance so all of this cell side
delivery
is imbalanced
and there's not enough by side delivery
so it's going to want to wait for the
market to come back up in here
in forex
there is no central
measure of volume okay and in the
algorithm that delivers price that is
going to want to come back up and
overlap this down move and offer
buyers an opportunity to get in on that
this is too much of a movement one-sided
so the market offers that rebalancing
so if that's the case
where in this range would we be looking
for
for an entry
knowing that this fair value got could
be revisited
and you're gonna have to utilize that
for your stop loss so your stop would
have to be here
doesn't matter where you're going short
in between this low and this high
you have to define the risk with the
stop here
based on the model i'm teaching you now
some of you are like oh this is too much
you know because if i went in at 129.45
and i put my stop here that's almost 12
pips
that's too much no it's not it's all
relative you can scale that's one of the
benefits of forex it's very scalable
whereas if you're trading futures you're
kind of stuck to whatever the contract
size is and you've got to either make it
work or
you can't take the trade or you're
basically over leveraged
which is what you don't want to be doing
so if we look at that range from that
high
down to that low and drop a fib on it
we're going to get a measurement of 50
here that's our equilibrium price point
so really we need price to get to that
point or higher
so by definition we could be looking for
a short here
up to here
and that would look like that so that
was that's really the range that you'd
be wanting to sell short in so you're
not really risking
a lot of pips
but you're defining the entry a little
bit better even though it goes above it
a little bit that's okay
but the bottom line is it eventually
gets in sync watch the bodies of the
candle support that
premium high of the imbalance
beautiful delivery
then it starts to break lower one more
time false little rally takes
buy side liquidity once more then the
real move starts to unfold
trades into the fair value gap here
take partials so that way if this
reverses on you you're paid
and drops below a low
where engineered south side liquidity
would be and then digs into the cell
cell equity over here
so your entry could be
129.44
129.47
in that range anywhere near is
reasonable it's acceptable
obviously the closer you get to this
level you may not have been filled it
might just leave some of that open and
then start to roll over but as you can
see here goes a little bit further
that's fine that's why we have to
utilize this level here for our stop
loss based on the model's rules that
i've taught in the 2022 youtube
mentorship
alright so i have
a four minute chart here with all the
details shown
south side the quality pool relative
equal lows from the morning
it rallies up
creates a high after running buy-side
liquidity
it breaks down
consolidates and gives a short-term
swing low here with an energetic run
lower at the high impact news event at 8
30.
rebalance
stop goes here and it rolls over
during the 10 o'clock till 11 o'clock
but
that time frame 10 to 11 that's london
close so if you're looking for
directional plays and you're in a trade
you want to have about 80 percent of
your trade off between 10 o'clock and 11
o'clock in the morning because usually
not all the time but usually that's when
it creates the opposing end of the daily
range so if it's creating the high of
the session here the low is likely to
form between 10 o'clock and 11 o'clock
that's algorithmic now there are some
times if there's news events
sometimes canadian dollars influenced by
crude oil numbers
and that would sometimes skew
this time window 10 to 11 so on those
days when there's crude oil inventory
numbers coming out and i'm interested in
trading the loony
i will trade with the expectation
between 10 o'clock to noon
and not have such a tight little window
of 10 to 11. and i promise you i have
students for days and days and days and
years and years now that will confirm
that this has not just been form fitted
for this example i've always taught that
10 o'clock until 11 o'clock in the
morning is london closed profit taking
hour i'm quite sure if you go through
the
older teachings i have in this youtube
channel you'll probably actually hear me
talk about that very thing as well
all right so we're going to talk about
the e-mini s p futures contract this is
the september contract for 2022. if
you're following along on tradingview
and i hope you are
the symbol you would be utilizing for
calling up the data for this contract is
esu
2022 okay and that would give you this
chart here this is a daily chart
and before i get into it i want to talk
a little bit about
daily bias
okay so
this topic is one of the most
requested topics that i would cover
and i have done
many teachings on it i've done
amplifications i've done
revisits to this idea
and i know what you're wanting okay
because it's what i wanted as well
you want a simple abc one two three it
always works it's always going to be the
same way it's always going to be the
same procedure process and it's always
going to give you a winning trade now
some of you are already folding your
hands and hissing because you're like oh
that's not what i want that's not what i
want you're exaggerating michael no
that's really what you want
and you want me to give you a very
simple cookie-cutter approach
to find daily bias
and i want you to understand that i've
taught these things
many times throughout the lessons and
lectures and series that's found on his
youtube channel
this is the simplification
that i make for daily bias if you stick
to these rules
you will know how to find daily bias as
i teach it my students follow these
rules
okay
i'm going to go through them with you
and you're going to be kicking and
screaming and saying there's something
else you're holding back there isn't
it's experience it's doing it yourself
but the keys to daily bias are simply
this
everyday bias is unrealistic
if i go in looking for a specific
predetermined daily bias before the
market starts trading invariably i'm
going to have it incorrect
notice i said that i'm not perfect some
of you hold me up to this
hero level status and i'm not a hero
okay i'm just somebody that knows what
they're looking for
and knows how to avoid hopefully
making the same mistakes over and over
again because i'm looking for a
procedure and process that will lead to
an outcome that generally not all the
time but generally yields a specific
result
so i'm not trying to get a daily bias
every single day
i'm trying to determine the likely
weekly expansion and again what is that
i utilize a weekly chart and i studied
that and i want to see does it look like
it's going to run to an old low
does it look like it's going to run to
an old high
or is it running to a imbalance below
the market price or is it trying to run
to an imbalance above the market price
or is it likely not to move because
there's no data for it for that week
and other markets have
high impact or medium impact news that
would be more interesting
and the algorithm will be working those
pairs or markets
and
the pairs or markets that don't have a
high impact or medium impact driver will
probably be a lackluster market
environment
i'm looking for
the direction
of an expansion move
i'm not trying to get the entire weekly
range
i'm not trying to buy the weekly low and
sell the weekly high i can but that's
not what i'm trying to do you don't need
to do that okay
i know some of you hate when i do that
but
i'm trying to make sure that you
understand there's a distinction between
what you should be coming into this with
in terms of expectations
and what is realistic
okay in the beginning
all you're trying to do is determine is
it likely to expand higher is there
going to be a big move a flurry of
activity
going higher
during the week
or going lower during the week
and by itself
that is huge in terms of what you're
trying to pick now you might be wrong
because sometimes i get it wrong
but i'm looking for some volatility in a
direction based on what i'm studying on
a weekly chart so this is a daily chart
shown on this slide here
the same thing i would be doing to
determine where the daily charts going
i'm trying to do that with a weekly
chart but i'm only interested in seeing
what's it likely to reach for
i'm not trying to predict the weekly
closing price on that candlestick
i'm trying to look for where is the bulk
of that volatility going to be pushing
higher or lower and why would it be like
that
and it's as simple as what i mentioned
earlier is it aiming for and gravitating
towards an old high to run above it
or is it gravitating towards an old low
to run below it or is there an imbalance
where it needs to come back and revisit
that because it might just drop down to
a fair value gap to go higher longer
term
i don't even need to know that all i
need to know is what direction is it
most likely to have the majority of the
volume pushing through
now when i say volume
there is no centralized volume number in
4x
when i say the volume that means the
the interest the
the chaos the energy all the activity
the action okay is it gonna be on the
higher side reaching for buy side or is
it gonna be on the lower side reaching
for sell side that's what i'm looking
for i want to find where is it likely to
gun for
this particular week who's in the
crosshairs
have people been making money going long
is there a low they're gonna try to run
down and stop them out with it
that would be enough for me to frame an
expansion going lower so i'm looking for
obvious liquidity in that direction
below old lows above old highs
or
identifying imbalances and price
delivery top down that means from the
weekly
down to the daily
down to the four hour down to the one
hour to the 15 minute chart and then
once we get to the five minute chart you
do the scalings from five four three two
and one whichever has the clear obvious
fair value gap for you
based on the model's
rules
and i focus on
days
that have high or medium impact calendar
events
only
so
if you go through your economic calendar
in fact you can look at
next month's
economic counter they're already there
where are
the high impact or medium impact news
events for the markets that you trade
what day of the week and what time
so if you have a news driver
that's coming out on a particular day
say tuesday or wednesday
and you're expecting the weekly range to
expand lower
well on those medium impact or high
impact news events
i'm going to see hopefully something
that is going to run up higher go into a
fair value gap or run above a short term
high run stops then break down show
displacement
then create a fair value gap and i can
go in short on that
and i'm doing that
and looking for that setup
and that directional price run inside my
kill zones intraday
at the same time the economic calendar
is suggesting a high impact or medium
impact news event is likely
so what did i just teach you here i
basically said that there is absolutely
no expectation on my part to know the
bias every single day of every single
calendar trading day
i'm only
focusing on
these
sweet spots these low hanging fruit days
where everything's coming to get all the
stars are lining okay i'm looking for
the higher time frame weekly to expand
in a specific direction that starts my
bias
then
if i think it's going to be going higher
going lower for a specific target or
imbalance
then i'm going to go to the economic
calendar to look for when that might
occur now there may be a move that
happens
prior to the economic calendar event
occurring and that's just going to be a
missed opportunity so you have to use
something else some other pair something
else that you got the trade with
sometimes that occurs
but you'll see that there's a lot of
opportunities using this criteria
and it's very forgiving for you as a
developing student because
it's already given you permission not to
know the daily bias outside of these
rules
so you want to trade every single day
because you want to be
the everyday trader
i don't want to be the everyday trader
is more prone to have losing trades
because they are trying to do something
every single day when there are times
when you should not be trading at all
and that's what makes me different from
all the other educators out there
because i have made a career out of
knowing how not to destroy myself
because that's what i did when i was a
20 year old
i thought that i could trade every
single day
and that's
problematic when you don't know how to
trade and you have a lot of time or
lack of self-control
and that's why i was blowing accounts
when i was 20 and 21 and 22.
that
fevered
pace of i got to do it i got to do it i
want to miss that next move
when hopefully you've seen now enough
instances where this pattern repeats a
lot over the course of a month it's in
most markets a few times a week
but if you notice those moves are
occurring when there's a high impact or
media impact news driver on the econo
calendar
so it's something that you can plan for
you ever hear them the old cliche
remarks of
books and educators they say
plan your trade and trade your plan
well this is how you can do that with
that model
you look for the economic calendar
the time of day what kill zone in the
market you're expecting an
expansion high or low on that weekly
chart
there it is
you're looking for these things to
repeat
and if you start journaling these things
you're going to notice that the setups
this is one of the epiphanies
okay because i know some of you just
don't want to do this but now because
i'm going to tell you you're going to go
into it hopefully and see that what i'm
saying is true
if you
backlog
every day
show everything that took place mark up
your charts as i'm going to show you in
some examples in here
when that happens over time you're going
to see that the best setups occur when
these calendar events are in play
and they originate around that same time
and what will happen is it'll convince
you to say okay i don't need to be the
everyday trader i don't need to be in
here being super scalper i don't need to
be in here trying to be an olympic
trader
because
trading is not an olympic sport it's not
an olympic event
and they don't give out gold medals for
over trading
but they do
blow accounts
so
eventually doing that enough
and if you don't know what you're doing
you're going to blow your account and
that's hopefully what i'm trying to
prevent you from enduring
all right so
we're looking at the
hourly chart here on the s p obviously
we've traded down
we left relative equal lows but this low
went just a little bit lower than that
one that's all we need it hits that and
it started
retracing higher
this movement here
that's whip sawing both sides of the
marketplace
sell side taken and then buy side taken
and then it broke down
whenever i see price action like this i
ignore the both side type movement
usually it's fomc or
some kind of rate announcement type
event and
that's what you're seeing here
when i see that i ignore that wick and i
ignore all these as well the real range
is here this is manipulation it's
already done it's not going to hurt you
focus on this swing here
so when the market drops down it creates
this low runs a little bit lower we're
consolidating
we had a holiday on monday
the market starts to drift higher
and what i'm concerning with
this run here is
this high
to that low and i'm getting my range
equilibrium is here
so if it's going higher
what's it reaching for well it's going
to go into a premium
and then
this right here
this imbalance i'm not really interested
in that one because
it's overlapping with that equilibrium
50 level
of the high
to that low so i want to see it dig into
a premium so even if this is going to go
up to go down
i want to know do i have an opportunity
to see it go up into this area here or
maybe even up here
so we'll use the first low-hanging fruit
approach here
so we have fair value gap there in
balance sell side only the market's
going to want to revisit that area
this is exactly what i teach you this is
exactly what happened look at the bodies
of the candles yes there's a little bit
of
movement just above
this candle's low but look at the bulk
of these candles
the bodies
they're staying within that range that's
defined by what i teach you as a fair
value gap
in a premium market what makes it a
premium it's above the 50 level so it's
gone up
into that level here it's consolidating
on the 15-minute time frame
pause the video look for what you can
identify based on your understanding and
experience learning under me so far
okay if you need more time pause the
video
all right so here's midnight new york
local time
we had a fair value gap here
pull a shoulder block these last three
down closed candles that's one
consecutive order block
it digs into the order block with the
fair value gap
hits that during the london session
it rallies up
we create a fair value gap here
it runs by side here and then creates
relative equal highs
ahead of the new york session
so the market drops down
goes into the fair value gap here
into the last down closed candle bull
shoulder block there that's where you
could be a buyer
ahead of
the 9 30 opening
why would you feel confident to do that
because we already have an energetic
price run from
london open
the market started at midnight and went
where did it go up no
it went
down
into an imbalance and then there was a
lot of energy off of that
so the market created
a short-term
shift in market structure
here
that's bullish
london creates the higher the load most
of the time 70 of time you're going to
find that that is true
if your directional bias is correct so
i'm trusting that that low
is
probably pricing in the daily low this
retracement into
the new york session
we're trading into
an order block
we close up this fair value gap
then we rally a little bit and drop back
down into the fair bay gap once more
creating optimal trade entry that's not
what we're going to focus on this one
here
but we have the new york am session
beginning here
from 8 30 in the morning
to 11 this is specific
to index futures for the morning session
this is the upper level in that fair
value gap
on the hourly chart and this is the
lower level on the hourly fair value gap
so that's your targets it's going to be
a draw on liquidity
the market runs from the fairway gap
here
to the low of the fair value gap on the
hourly chart to the high the fair value
gap on the hourly chart after clearing
buys liquidity
on a 5-minute chart
there's a lot of things going on here
you can see we have a low then we ran
that low once more then
it rallies and moves up
away from the order block and then back
down into the last down closed candle on
the five-minute chart so there's an
hierarchy of how the market's trading
down into a higher time frame to a lower
time frame to a lower time frame all
being supported by down closed candles
within the bias that's bullish
and once fair value gaps are being
closed in
the market goes higher so it's signaling
to you it's indicating to you that you
don't need an indicator you don't need
some wonky little gimmicky candlestick
replacement okay
the candlestick is telling you
everything you need to know
you don't need to have any kind of
indicators no moving averages none of
that garbage
okay
everything is being shown here in price
action relative to time
and price
so we have
the market
starting
with a run from this low with a lower
low
so what took place here
we'll come back to that in a minute
mark comes back down into a short-term
discount
relative to the low to high here
rallies and at 9 30 it's consolidating
and then it starts to run
reaches for the bicep liquidity here
the low of the fair bay gap on the
hourly chart and the high the fair value
gap on the hourly chart as it draws on
liquidity
three targets all hit
i'm going to zoom in
and this is a
zoomed in chart of
the session that starts at 8 30
and going into the 9 30 opening so we
have the low here lower low into the
order block
it rallies short term shift in market
structure here
comes back down in there's an imbalance
or if every gap here these levels are
based on the five-minute chart so
even though we're looking at a
smaller time frame than that
that's what we're looking at but we're
going to refine that
down into
this particular time frame so inside
that let me go back up one more slide
so inside the fair value gap we're
dropping down in here but we're doing it
into this very value gap there
down close candle that's an order block
and fair value gap
there it is
you can buy this
right there
and trust that it's not likely to take
that low out why
because we already had a stop running
event here
low
lower low sell side taken reaction
off the order block
we're into the fair value gap we rallied
once more we created a fair value gap
here drop down that last down closed
candle you can be a buyer there
there's buy side liquidity resting up
here that's going to be your initial
draw on liquidity so that'd be a first
partial
if you want to add if you want to
pyramid
the position
you can add that as it starts to run up
higher
but i want to show you the low to the
high here that's 50 or equilibrium the
market drops into a discount prior to
that
run up here
this consolidation at 9 30 we see it
taking off here
it's already done the move of
manipulation knocking people out
retracing
then off to the races
so
this is a case where you do not need to
wait for nine thirties opening to get
that volatility to get these type of
manipulation moves
this is an early setup
discount
fair value gap
and rallies so notice what's happening
we have an hourly discount that we're
trading into here
then it creates a
short-term
discount relative to this low to this
high that's we're seeing here then the
market rallies
here
comes back down into an order block
and fair value gap discount
rallies
consolidates ahead of 9 30. is it likely
to trade back down and take that low out
no
because it's already closed in the only
fair value gap that's here
see that so if you're up here
looking back it's already rebalanced
this there's no reason for it to go down
it doesn't need to go down here
because it's already shown a willingness
to want to rally and this run didn't
need to go over here because this low
took out that low so that is all
framework in narrative
so all of that comes together
now also couple that with
the 830 news
that took place in the dollar cad
i'm showing you how these two markets
relate to one another with the proper
context
and bias
dollar cad what is the currency's first
pair
in its name dollar
so if we're expecting as i was hinting
it on twitter
it going down to a discount or running
sell side liquidity that means the bias
is bearish
so if the bias is bearish on dollar cad
that means that
it's a risk-on scenario
so the markets like
s p nasdaq
other foreign currencies are going to
be easier to rally
versus going down
in dollar pairs
i'm not really interested in anything
except for the dollar cad because dollar
cad had the high impact news event
so i don't need to go to the dollar
itself
when i have a high impact news event or
one dollar cad i can go right to that
and cut to the chase and determine what
the bias is for the morning session
because if i'm likely to see lower
prices on dollar cad that's the same
thing as saying
lower dollar
higher foreign currency and when the
dollar goes down it's easy for spoos or
e-mini s p stock index features to go
higher
and everything i've shown here is in
concert with that idea
so here we have that
short-term high shift in market
structure
after the stop hunt retracement to a
discount the fair value got buying here
run to initial target buys liquidity
relative equal highs here it runs that
you can't see it here remember we're
dropping down this is a three minute
chart now
it rallies up creates a fair value gap
here overshoots it a little bit that's
fine
rallies once more
and digs into the high of the hourly
fair value gap
and again kind of like what i was
suggesting moments ago
here is that movement up in
the s p
at the 9 30 time period
when the dollar cad was trading down
into its discount
here so lower dollar cad
higher s p
so
as a
forex trader you could be selling short
if you're not an s p trader
or if you're not trading forex like me
this
is the long one s p
and you can add in as it's taking out
this short term high here
you can look for
pyramiding opportunities and what would
that look like
well i was in a 10 second chart i know
some of you were surprised when i said
that
but here is the 9 30 opening
here
and we had a little bit of consolidation
then we had a run higher
creating the fair value gap between here
and here the market dropped down i'm
buying there
it rallies up into that there's my entry
you can see it right there that's the
fill that's the price 37 41 and three
quarters
and as the market goes higher if you're
trading like this you can take first
partials at logical levels as i
mentioned we were on the higher time
frame charts and as it goes higher you
just scale off what
your model what your approach or your
plan would allow for and then hold
something for the rest of the day
towards the close or at least try to see
if you get a continuation into the
afternoon session and that would be
between 1 30
and 4 o'clock in the afternoon new york
local time
so hopefully this has been insightful to
you hopefully it has helped you
obviously in terms of using other
markets for inter-market relationships
for bias how to navigate markets these
are the only two markets i talked about
today and you can see how they had a
synergy between them there was a
a movement and kind of like a dance
between them even though they're not
correlated don't think that there's any
kind of correlation between them it's
the fact that it's risk on risk off
that's all that it is and i was focusing
primarily on dollar cad because dollar
cad had its high impact news drivers for
today
so i was using that
in relationship to what i would expect
in the s p market and i found my trade
by utilizing a market i'm not going to
trade but if it's going to give me
insights and it's going to go lower
it helps me frame risk on risk off risk
on that means
foreign currencies index futures stocks
go higher dollar goes down
risk off is dollar higher and everything
else going down
so if you go into your day with those
ideas
risk on risk off it makes it a lot
easier to look for supporting ideas with
intermarket relationships
correlations between
assets like if you are trading like
forex
euro dollar versus cable uh euro dollar
would be a better trade than
say
pound dollar if there is an inability
for one of them to go
low make a lower low
and one doesn't do that that's showing
you that's the relative strength leader
that would be the better buy in this
situation here another instance would be
aussie dollar and
kiwi dollar
in new zealand dollar
if you're looking at situations like
this and you find a currency that fails
to make a lower low
intraday
when it's risk on
you would be buying the risk on
higher low
currency and i don't i didn't see i
didn't look at
the australian dollar and the kiwi this
morning and it may not have presented it
but
if i were trading those pairs and i
wouldn't really be trading them because
the impact news driver on the account
calendar is again on dollar cad so
that's the market i would be trading so
a lot of you ask all the time like how
do you know which pair to trade how do
you know which one to pick i'm starting
that with the economic calendar
but sometimes
i may use
that market
for instance instead of being dollar cad
today if euro dollar had a high impact
news event i would compare pound dollar
and euro dollar for correlation
so i would look for smt diversions
to signal which one i'd rather be in
just because the news driver
is in for instance
the euro
the better trade may be in pound dollar
if they both went down prior to the news
event coming out for euro
and if pound dollar failed to make a
lower low i'm buying pound dollar
because they're going to most likely
move in sympathy with one another
because they're closely correlated
but
in the instance of dollar cad
i'm not going to do anything except for
focus on dollar cad because the economic
calendar suggested that's where the
volatility would be for forex today and
you're welcome to go through the pairs
and compare and contrast whether that's
true or not i didn't do it but you can
do that on your own
and hopefully you got something out of
this one until i talk to you on thursday
for our
discussion on money management that'll
complete the
2022 mentorship
teachings and we'll just continuously do
market reviews on the youtube channel
monday through friday so i'll obviously
be back lord willing tomorrow on
wednesday with a review on something
either s p related or some kind of 4x
pair
and hopefully you'll learn something
from that as well until next time be
safe